**McDonald's (MCD)**

**Executive Summary and Recommendation**

McDonald's has demonstrated **strong financial performance** over the
past five years, recovering swiftly from the 2020 downturn to reach
**record sales and profits**. Revenue has grown at a **\~5% CAGR
(2020--2024)**, driven by **robust comparable sales and steady unit
expansion**. **Operating margins returned to the mid-40% range by
2023**, with **net income reaching \~\$8.5B**. The franchise model
**keeps costs low and margins high**, even amid inflation. **Free cash
flow (\~90% of net income) supports consistent dividend growth (47
consecutive years) and buybacks.** Stock performance has been strong,
nearly **doubling in total return over five years**, though **valuation
is now elevated (\~26× P/E, \~17.5× EV/EBITDA).** McDonald's **outshines
most peers in profitability while matching them in growth**, reinforcing
its **fast-food industry leadership**.

**Investment Recommendation -- HOLD (Neutral)**

We rate McDonald's a **Hold** at current levels. **Fundamentals remain
exceptional**, but **valuation is at the high end of historical
ranges**. **DCF-based intrinsic value estimates (\$220--\$250) suggest
limited upside**, with shares trading at **\~\$290--\$300**. While
**McDonald's premium is deserved**, the **current risk/reward is
balanced**.

**Long-term investors should hold for steady returns (\~9% annual total
return potential, including dividends), while new investors may wait for
a market pullback.** The company remains a **stable compounder** with
**strong cash flows and strategic adaptability** but lacks near-term
catalysts for substantial appreciation.

**\
**

**Recent Financial Performance**

McDonald's has shown **strong post-pandemic revenue recovery**, with
sales rebounding from **\$19.2 billion in 2020 to \$25.92 billion in
2024**. After a **21% surge in 2021**, growth stalled in 2022 due to
Russia's exit but **picked up again in 2023 (+9.97%)**. By 2023, the
company **surpassed pre-pandemic revenue levels**, driven by **record
global systemwide sales of \$129.5 billion**. However, **2024 saw
revenue plateau (+1.7%)** and **global comparable sales flatten
(-0.1%)**, signaling a **normalized demand environment**.

McDonald's primarily earns revenue through **franchise fees (\~60% in
2023)** and **company-operated sales (\~40%)**. The franchise model
ensures **stable, high-margin income**, though it limits reported
revenue growth. The **shift to 95% franchised locations** (from 81% a
decade ago) has **enhanced profitability**. **Gross margins improved
from \~51% in 2020 to 57.1% in 2023**, while **operating margins hit
\~46%**, a multi-year high. **Net income surged from \$4.7B in 2020 to a
record \$8.47B in 2023**, though it **declined slightly (-2.9%) in
2024** due to higher costs.

Despite slowing sales, **McDonald's remains highly profitable**, with a
**31.7% net margin in 2024**, benefiting from its **asset-light
franchise model and operational efficiencies**.

**McDonald's cost structure benefits from its franchise model**, where
**franchised revenue carries 80%+ operating margins**, while
**company-operated stores face higher costs** (food, labor, occupancy).
The pandemic drove efficiency improvements, and **G&A expenses remained
flat at \$2.7B in 2023** despite higher sales. **Food and labor costs
rose with inflation in 2021--2022**, but **McDonald's offset this
through menu price increases and scale efficiencies**. In 2023, **easing
inflation and strong sales expanded margins**, with an **adjusted
operating margin of \~46% (up from 40% in 2022)**. **The franchise model
blunted inflation's impact**, as McDonald's continued collecting
royalties while franchisees managed rising costs.

**McDonald's momentum slowed in 2024** after strong growth in
2021--2023. **Q4 2024 global comparable sales rose just +0.4%, with U.S.
comps down -1.4%**, reflecting tough prior-year comparisons. **Full-year
2024 comps were flat (-0.1%)**, but **systemwide sales grew \~1% to over
\$130B**, aided by new units and menu price increases. **Digital sales
surged, with loyalty members driving \$30B in sales (23% of total, +30%
YoY)**. **Q4 EPS was \$2.80 (flat YoY), full-year EPS \~\$11.10
(slightly down from \$11.56 in 2023)**. McDonald's **retained its gains
and digital strength, though future growth may moderate** post-pandemic
recovery.

**Balance Sheet**

**McDonald's maintains strong cash flow, supported by its high-margin
franchise model.** Operating cash flow rebounded from **\$6.3B in 2020
to \$9.61B in 2023**, while **free cash flow (FCF) reached \$7.25B in
2023**. The company consistently converts **\~90% of net income into
FCF**, reflecting low capital intensity. **Capex remains modest
(\~\$2--2.5B annually)**, allowing for **consistent dividend increases
and share buybacks**. In 2023, **\$4.0B in dividends and \$1.9B in
buybacks were fully covered by FCF**. Even in 2020, McDonald's
**maintained its dividend with \$4.6B in FCF**, demonstrating
resilience.

**McDonald's debt is well-managed despite a \$38.5B long-term debt
balance (2024)**, up slightly from **\$35.2B in 2020**. The company
leveraged low-interest rates in **2020--21 for share buybacks and
liquidity**, but **interest coverage remains strong (8.6× EBIT/interest
in 2023, 7.7× in 2024)**. The **debt-to-EBITDA ratio (\~2.75× in 2024)
remains at a manageable level**. While McDonald's shareholders' equity
is negative due to aggressive buybacks, **its cash flow stability
ensures strong credit ratings and refinancing ability**.

**Liquidity remains solid despite a low current ratio (\~1.2 in 2024)**,
as **McDonald's generates daily cash flow from sales and franchise
fees**. Cash balances fluctuated, **peaking at \$4.7B in 2021 before
declining to \$1.1B in 2024** as excess cash was used for debt repayment
and shareholder returns. **A \$3.5--5B revolving credit facility
provides additional liquidity if needed**.

Overall, **McDonald's balance sheet is optimized for efficiency**, with
a **franchise-driven model that sustains high cash flow, manageable
debt, and strong financial flexibility**, ensuring continued dividends,
buybacks, and reinvestment while maintaining investment-grade credit
ratings.

**Stock Performance**

**McDonald's stock has delivered strong returns with low volatility over
the past five years.** After dropping to **\$124 during the March 2020
crash**, it rebounded to **\$197 by year-end 2020 (+11%)**. The rally
continued, with **MCD closing 2021 at \~\$252 (+28%)** and holding
steady in 2022 despite market downturns. **By 2023, the stock hit
\~\$291 (+15%)** and remained around **\$290 in 2024 (-0.5%)**. Over
five years, **MCD's stock price rose from \~\$195 to \$290, delivering
an 88% total return (including dividends), outperforming the S&P 500**.
Its **low volatility (5-year beta \~0.7) and defensive nature** helped
it withstand market stress.

**Market sentiment has remained positive, with McDonald's seen as a
safe, growth-oriented stock.** Key drivers included **"Accelerating the
Arches" (menu innovation, digital expansion)** and **strong market share
gains**, especially in economic downturns. **Russia's 2022 exit had
minimal impact**, while inflationary periods favored McDonald's as a
value dining leader. Despite brief dips, **analyst sentiment remains
bullish**.

**Wall Street maintains a "Buy/Overweight" rating on MCD**, with a
**consensus price target of \~\$324**, ranging from **\$265 to \$360**.
Major firms **expect 10--14% upside** based on **pricing power,
franchise model strength, and steady earnings growth**. **McDonald's
valuation remains high, but its stability supports its premium
pricing.**

**4. Valuation Metrics**

**McDonald's trades at a premium valuation**, consistent with its
blue-chip status. **Its trailing P/E at the end of 2024 (\~26×) aligns
with its 5-year average in the mid-20s.** Historically, its **P/E ranged
from \~24× in 2019 to \~27--28× during 2021's rebound**, before
stabilizing around **25× in 2022--2023**. Compared to peers,
**McDonald's P/E is elevated but justified by its stability and high
margins**. **Yum! Brands (YUM) trades at \~24×, Restaurant Brands (QSR)
at \~18--19×, and Wendy's (WEN) at \~17--18×.** Starbucks (SBUX)
typically has a higher P/E (\~30× in late 2024).

**McDonald's EV/EBITDA (\~17--18×) reflects strong cash flow
generation.** This is **slightly below the QSR peer median (\~19×) but
above the broader restaurant sector (\~13×).** **Yum! trades around
19.8×, Domino's at \~21.8×, and Wendy's lower at \~12.9×.** McDonald's
**EV/Sales is high (\~9.5× vs. the \~4.9× peer median),** reflecting its
**high-margin franchise model.**

**Despite its premium valuation, McDonald's remains attractive for its
stability, strong free cash flow (3.4% yield), and 47-year dividend
growth streak (current yield \~2.2%).** Expected **7% EPS growth implies
\~9% total annual returns**, making it a **steady, defensive investment
rather than a deep value play.**

**Comparative Analysis**

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Factor**          **McDonald\'s (MCD)** **Starbucks         **Yum! Brands     **Restaurant   **Wendy's
                                            (SBUX)**            (YUM)**           Brands (QSR)** (WEN)**
  ------------------- --------------------- ------------------- ----------------- -------------- ---------------
  **Market Share &    Largest QSR globally, Strong #2 in U.S.   55K+ locations    30K+ units     Smallest of the
  Scale**             40K+ restaurants, 21% fast-food market,   (more than MCD),  (BK, Tim       group, \~7K
                      U.S. market share,    \$36B revenue,      \$7.5B revenue,   Hortons,       locations,
                      \$53B U.S. sales      heavy China         multi-brand       Popeyes,       \$2.2B revenue
                                            expansion           strategy          Firehouse      
                                                                                  Subs), \$7B    
                                                                                  revenue        

  **Revenue Growth    \~35% growth (\$21.4B \~54% growth        \~35% growth      \~41% growth   \~26% growth
  (2019-2024)**       to \$25.9B)           (\$23.5B to         (\$5.6B to        (\$5B to       (\$1.73B to
                                            \$36.2B),           \$7.55B)          \$7.1B)        \$2.18B),
                                            fastest-growing                                      slowest growth

  **Profitability**   Operating Margin      Operating Margin    Operating Margin  Operating      Net Margin
                      \~45%, Net Margin     \~15%, Net Margin   \~33%, Net Margin Margin lower   \~9.4%, Weaker
                      \~31%, High ROIC,     \~10%, More         \~19-20%, Strong  than MCD/YUM,  profitability
                      Strong cash flows     capital-intensive   margins but lower Net Margin     vs. peers
                                                                than MCD          \~17%          

  **Franchise vs.     95% franchised,       42% franchised,     98% franchised,   100%           \~95%
  Company Mix**       Asset-light, High     Operates many       Highly            franchised,    franchised,
                      free cash flow        stores directly,    asset-light, High Asset-light    Mixed model
                      conversion (\~86%)    Higher revenue per  free cash flow                   
                                            store               conversion                       
                                                                (\~100%)                         

  **Competitive       Dominates burger      Leader in specialty Leads in chicken  BK struggling, Smaller scale
  Position**          segment, leads in     coffee, competes    (KFC), pizza      Popeyes        than
                      digital/drive-thru,   with McDonald\'s in (Pizza Hut),      gaining        McDonald\'s,
                      competes with         breakfast &         growing Taco Bell traction,      competing on
                      Starbucks in coffee   convenience         internationally   catching up in premium burgers
                                                                                  digital &      & breakfast
                                                                                  delivery       

  **Market Share      Gained market share   China expansion,    Strong in         Burger King    Market share
  Shifts**            during COVID, strong  strong loyalty      emerging markets  lost U.S.      stable, but
                      promotions (e.g., \$5 program (75M        (KFC China),      market share,  lacks scale to
                      Meal Deal)            members)            steady brand      turnaround     challenge
                                                                positioning       plan in        leaders
                                                                                  progress       
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Long-Term Growth Outlook**

**McDonald's enters the next five years in a position of strength**,
leveraging its **globally recognized brand, cost advantages, and real
estate holdings**. Its **franchise-driven model enables efficiency,
scalability, and profitability**, with investments in **technology (AI
ordering, automation) and digital engagement (175M+ loyalty users)**
enhancing its competitive moat. **Strategic marketing (celebrity
collaborations, viral promotions)** keeps it relevant, ensuring
sustained customer traffic.

**Key Industry Trends Impacting Growth:**

• **Digital & Delivery:** Over **40% of sales in top markets come from
digital channels**. Drive-thru and delivery remain strong growth
drivers.

-   **Menu Innovation:** McDonald's balances **classic menu items with
    health trends and indulgent limited-time offers**. **McPlant's mixed
    results** suggest cautious expansion into plant-based options.

-   **Global Expansion:** Emerging markets like **China, India, and
    Southeast Asia present growth opportunities**, with **\~4% annual
    unit growth (\~1,500 new stores per year)** fueling steady
    systemwide sales increases.

-   **Economic Cycles:** In downturns, **McDonald's benefits from
    trade-down behavior**. Urbanization and busy lifestyles favor its
    **quick-service model**, with **smaller urban stores and ghost
    kitchens** enhancing accessibility.

-   **Cost Pressures & Automation:** Rising labor costs (e.g.,
    **California's \$20/hr wage law in 2024**) will **push McDonald's
    toward AI and automation** to sustain margins.

**Risks & Opportunities:**

-   **Competitive Pressure:** Burger King, Wendy's, and fast-casual
    brands are vying for market share.

-   **Regulatory & ESG Risks:** Labor laws, environmental mandates, and
    health-related scrutiny could impact operations.

-   **Tech-Driven Profitability:** AI-powered **menu pricing, digital
    upselling, and operational automation** could **increase efficiency
    and customer spend**.

**Outlook (2024--2029):**

-   **Revenue growth expected at \~3--5% annually** from pricing,
    digital sales, and new locations.

-   **EPS projected to rise in the high single digits, supported by
    efficiency gains.**

-   **McDonald's remains the QSR leader**, likely extending its
    dominance via the **"4Ds" strategy -- Digital, Delivery, Drive-Thru,
    and Development.**
